for linear regression we have previously
worked out two learning algorithms one
based on gradient descent and one based
on the normal equation in this video
we'll take those two algorithms and
generalize them to the case of
regularized linear regression here's the
optimization objective that we came up
with last time for regularized linear
regression this first part is our usual
objective for linear regression and we
now have this additional regularization
term where lambda is our regularization
parameter and we like to find parameters
theta that minimizes this cost function
this regular rise cost function J of
theta previously we were using gradient
descent for the original cost function
without the regularization term and we
had the following algorithm for regular
linear regression without regularization
we will repeatedly update the parameters
theta J as follows for J equals 0 1 2 up
through n let me take this and just
write the case for theta 0 separately so
you know I'm just going to write the
update for theta 0 separately then for
the updating for the parameters 1 2 3
and so on up to n and this is so this is
I haven't changed anything yet right
this is just writing the update for
theta 0 separately from the updates for
theta 1 theta 2 theta 3 up to theta n
and the reason I want to do this is you
may remember that for our regularized
linear regression we penalize the
parameters theta 1 theta 2 and so on up
to theta n but we don't penalize theta 0
so when we modify this algorithm for
regularizes linear regression we're
going to end up treating theta 0
slightly differently concretely if we
want to take this algorithm and modify
it to use the regular rise objective all
we need to do is take this term at the
bottom and modify as follows we will
take this term and add minus lambda over
m times theta J and if you implement
this then you have gradient descent for
trying to
minimize the regular rise cost function
J of theta and concretely I'm not going
to do the calculus to prove it but
concretely if you look at this term the
term that written in square brackets if
you know calculus is possible to prove
that that term is the partial derivative
with respect to J of theta using the new
definition of J of theta with the
regularization term and similarly this
term up on top which I guess I'm drawing
the cyan box that's still the partial
derivative respect to theta 0 of J of
theta if you look at the update for
theta J is possible to show something
pretty interesting
concretely theta J gets updated as theta
J minus alpha times and then you have
this other term here that depends on
theta J so if you group all the terms
together at they depend on theta J you
can show that this update can be written
equivalently as follows and all I did
was at you know theta J here is of theta
J times 1 and this term is a lambda over
m there's also an alpha here so you end
up with alpha lambda over m multiplied
into theta J and this term here 1 minus
alpha times lambda M is a pretty
interesting term it has a pretty
interesting effect
concretely this term 1 minus alpha times
lambda over m is going to be a number
this usually is a number that's usually
like a lope and less than 1 right
because alpha times Londer over m is
going to be positive and usually you
know if your learning rate is small and
if M is large this is usually pretty
small so this term here it's going to be
a number it's usually a little bit less
than one so think of it as a number like
0.99 let's say and so the effect of our
update to theta J is we're going to say
that theta J gets replaced by theta J
times 0.99 right so theta J times 0.99
has the effect of shrinking theta J a
little bit to 1 0 so this makes theta J
bit smaller or more formally this makes
you know the squared norm of theta J a
little bit smaller and then after that
the second term here that's actually
exactly the same as the original
gradient descent update that we had
before we add in all this regularization
stuff so hopefully this gradient descent
hopefully this update makes sense
when we're using regular rise linear
regression what we're doing is on every
iteration we're multiplying theta J by a
number that's a little bit less than one
so we're shrinking the parameter a
little bit and then we're performing you
know similar update as before of course
that's just the intuition behind what
this particular update is doing
mathematically what is doing is exactly
gradient descent on the cost function J
of theta that we defined on the previous
slide that uses the regularization term
gradient descent was just one of our two
algorithms for fitting a linear
regression model the second algorithm
was the one based on the normal equation
where what we did was we created the
design matrix X where each row
corresponding to a separate training
example and we created a vector Y so
this is a vector that's in there's an M
dimensional vector and that contains the
labels from my training set so whereas X
is an M by n plus 1 dimensional matrix
Ziya m dimensional vector and in order
to minimize the cost function J we found
that one way to do so is to set theta to
be equal to this right we had X
transpose X inverse X transpose Y I'm
leaving room here to flow and stuff of
course and what this value for theta
does is this minimizes the cost function
J of theta where we were not using
regularization now that we are using the
regularization if you were to derive
what the minimum is and just to give you
a sense of how to derive the minimum the
way you derive it is you you know take
partial derivatives respect to each
parameter set this is 0 and then do a
bunch of math and you can then show that
it's a formula like this that minimizes
the cost function and concretely if you
are using regularization then this
formula changes as follows inside this
parenthesis you end up with a matrix
like this 0 1 1 1 and so on 1 until the
bottom so this thing over here is a
matrix whose upper leftmost entry is 0
the ones on the diagonals and then their
zeros everywhere else in this matrix
because I'm drawing this little bit
sloppy ly but as a concrete example if N
equals 2 then this matrix is going to be
a 3 by 3 matrix more generally this is
this matrix Isaiah n plus 1 by n plus 1
dimensional matrix so if N equals 2 then
that matrix becomes something that looks
like this would be 0 and then once on
the diagonals and then zeros on the rest
of the off diagonals and once again you
know I'm not going to show this
derivation which is frankly someone long
and involved but is possible to prove
that so if you are using the new
definition of J of theta with the
regularization objective then this new
formula for theta is the one that would
give you the global minimum of J of
theta so finally I want to just quickly
describe the issue of non inverter
this is relatively advanced materials so
you should consider this as optional and
feel free to skip it or if you listen to
it and you know possibly don't really
make sense don't worry about it either
but um earlier when I talked about the
normal equation method we also had an
optional video on the non-invertibility
issue so this is another optional part
that sort of an add-on to that earlier
optional video on non-invertibility now
consider setting where m the number of
examples is less than equal to n the
number of features if you have fewer
examples and features then this matrix x
transpose x will be non-invertible or
singular or the other term for this is
the matrix will be degenerate and if you
implement this in octave anyway and you
use the P in function to take the
pseudo-inverse
it will kind of do the right thing but
it is not clear that it will give you a
very good hypothesis even though
numerically you know the octave P in
function will give you will give you a
result that kind of makes sense but if
you were doing this in a different
language and if you were or if you were
taking just the regular inverse which an
octave is denoted with the function inv
we're trying to take the regular inverse
of X transpose X then in this setting
you find that x transpose x is singular
is not invertible and if you're doing
this in a different programming language
and you know using some linear algebra
library to try to take the inverse of
this matrix it just might not work
because that matrix is non-invertible or
singular
fortunately regularization also take
care of this for us and concretely so
long as the regularization parameter
lambda is strictly greater than 0 it is
actually possible to prove that this
matrix a transpose x plus lambda times
this you know funny matrix here is
possible to prove that this matrix will
not be singular and that this matrix
will be invertible so using
regularization also take cares of any
non-invertibility issues of the X
transpose X matrix as well so you now
know how to implement regularized linear
regression
using this you'll be able to avoid
overfitting even if you have lots of
features and a relatively small training
set and this should let you get linear
regression to work much better for many
problems in the next video we'll take
this regularization idea and apply it to
logistic regression so that you'll be
able to get logistic regression to avoid
overfitting and perform much better as
well